Hello everybody and welcome to excesses and memory layout in this video.
We're going to have a look at the arrow the dots and the two semicolons the scope excesses all work
and how they relate into memory.
Who will be introducing virtual memory introducing permanent storage stack and heap two things that
you would have heard lots about if you've ever read anything about C++ is this stack in the heap.
And being able to understand how things get allocated in memory is going to help you remember how and
when to use these accesses as well.
Now the heap is also known as the Free Store and we'll also go over how excess operators relate to the
memory.
So this is what we're aiming for at the end of this lecture.
So just like before when we press our grab button we end up with Grandma pressed.
But when we let go.
We end up with grabber released.
Brilliant.
Let's find out more.
So we've managed to get I'll grab key working and what I'd like to do is spend a few moments looking
at the syntax of what is going on here.
Now we've used the ampersand before in this case it means that it is the address of the grab function.
That's part of the you grab a class.
We have full qualification of where we're going and grab itself doesn't have these double parentheses
on like we used to putting on that would make no sense because we're not actually calling the function
at this point but we are telling it where to go in order to call it when we press our button.
And of course one of the things that's kind of hidden away at the moment is how does it know where to
go in order to get this function.
So hopefully this should bring it all together.
Let's go take a look.
Now you mentioned the white block here is a block of memory on your computer.
Now strictly speaking it is virtual memory the operating system itself will decide where that memory
actually happens to reside whether it's in the RAM or on your hard drive etc..
So we are allocated a lump of memory for our program and we can request more if the program requires
it but it turns out that the memory is essentially split into two.
Now bear with me here because this is a massive over simplification but it helps get the point across
and how things are stored.
You have permanent storage.
The blue stuff at the bottom.
And this is where you put known quantities stuff that we know at compile time get stored down here things
like half functions would end up in the permanent storage and basically any other data that remains
unchanged will end up in our permanent storage.
On the other side we have these stack and free store otherwise known as heap.
Now we're not going to dive into the great big details here about how they grow in size and shrink and
whether they start at the top of the memory and go down.
This is all something for another time.
The basics here is there's part of your memory that remains unchanged and is known at compile time and
there's your more dynamic area your stacking your heap that is the part of memory that's at runtime
will change.
Now this does tie in to our accessory operators.
So here we have things like classes in MS namespace and we've already used the code on coal on the scope
operator.
Now plenty of times so far now we have a look at this top one here the YOU GRAB A on her leg and grab.
That's this area here.
It is known at compile time where this function will be.
And so therefore it is stored in the permanent storage and we access anything that's in the permanent
storage using the scope operator.
And because it's an address it tells the bind action function where to go in memory in order to get
the grab function.
Now the other two accesses are the instance or reference which is the dot operator and of course the
one we've been using a lot recently the pointer which is the arrow operator there.
So let's start with mine.
Grab a dot grab now my grab is an instance and then we'll use the dots operator to access the grab function
of that particular instance.
And we use the book cow count.
Dot bulls are back in the last section I'm sure you guys remember that.
And then the next one my grab ref that's a reference and it's very similar to the top one at what we're
dealing with points is of course we are pointing to an address in memory.
So my grab pointer and then we could access any members with the arrow operator in this case we've got
the grab and another example here being reach so hopefully that gives you a bit more context of how
and when you should use these different types of accessories.
And so just drill at home finally let's have another look at our code real quick.
So let's go ahead and just get rid of that and let's say this is the first time that we've come across
this and we've got everything in there as is we have a look back at this signature and we know because
we're looking up a function we're going to have to fully quantify it.
So in this case it would be the you grabber as we've done before and we know that because a function
is going to be in the permanent storage we're going to use the scope operator to access it and then
we can go ahead and find ourselves grab.
Now remember you don't need the parentheses at the end there because we are not calling the function
and of course we wouldn't be calling if at all.
It would be the input component that would be calling the function and this is looking for the address
of that function.
So we do need to make sure we have the ampersand on the beginning there.
Okay.
That leads us nicely to your challenge unlike you who we've already got a grab method to create a release
method.
So follow the example of the grab a binding so we're going to have to bind another key the e num for
the release is i.e. released.
We've seen that before when we were creating the grab then I'd like you to log that the key has been
released.
So when we press it down we'll see that it's been grabbed and when we release the key we'll see that
it's been released over in the lock and then test and jump with joy that you've nice to put all of this
together.
Okay.
Pause the video now and give us a go Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and create a release method.
OK.
So I'm going to start over in the head file and just like the grab we're just going to void.
We'll call it release for the moment.
OK.
That's everything we need to do here.
Now like most things it doesn't matter which order you do them in.
As long as they are all done and I have just knows a little bit of an inconsistency there or my statement
I'm going to put the space necessary in there.
Okay.
So what input component.
That's fine.
So this is the example that we can look hats in order to create our release.
So once because they are so similar once again I'm going to go ahead and copy my you grabber but I had
four grab and set up release.
And also I'm gonna go grab a release.
I suppose released would be better impressed would be better.
Okay.
Now I wouldn't copy and paste like that if I wasn't changing it straightaway.
And it's so simple.
If we got a bigger block of code it's definitely worth going through piece by piece.
Okay.
So in here we already have the input component or set up here and then we're talking about it logged
input component found.
I'm going to delete.
That's because we know that it will be found straight away and we'll delete the else there and just
tidy up our code.
It's getting quite bulky now.
Okay.
So we already have an example directly above of the input component and we can almost verbatim but it's
going to change in a moment.
And I wonder if this tripped you up when we were going through what is it called okay.
Well it's still the grab key isn't it.
So perhaps our naming is not quite right there.
Or maybe it is.
It depends.
So it is still the grab key but this time we're talking about when it is released.
So that's the difference between the two.
And then of course we're talking about this particular grabber.
And then the ampersand followed by you grabber.
It's come up brilliant two colons and then we're talking about the release which is just there we don't
need anything else apart from the parentheses close and our semicolon.
OK.
So if we go ahead and save our file and go over into unreal compiler code.
Okay let's go ahead and press play.
And now what we should see is look at that when we press it and hold it it still says pressed.
However when we release it it says released.
That's exactly what I want to see.
Now I'm just clicking the right mouse button there.
But you could have used any inputs that you wanted as long as it can detect when it's pressed and when
it's released.
And how about that.
Congratulations guys.
We've managed to make it so that we can toggle grabbing on and off.
It's just not long now until we end up picking up our objects and moving them around our level and then
we'll get to the point where we're no longer stuck in this tiny room.
We'll branch out and create a proper level and that's it for this lecture and I'll see you all in the
next one.